If you're just sitting on the sidelines taking it
easy, then I'm not going to deal with you. The most
perilous thing in the world is to be the point man,
because you don't know whether what you're doing
is right or wrong. You can only be guided by your
conscience, your intelligence, and what you feel
is right. But because you are doing something,
because there are dynamics there, you're going to
make mistakes. Screwing up should never be a
reason to fire somebody. Somebody screws up is
because they're doing something. The guy who
never does anything wrong is probably not doing
anything. So people who tell me that the
government should be doing this, the
government's had 10 years to do it. A million times
zero is still zero. That's exactly what the
government's got. We need dynamics. We need a
change. And I think that the only way to get the
issue resolved is to provide a catalyst that will
break the diplomatic logjam. They're trying to do
something that's impossible right now. They've
come to loggerheads with the communists for all
the reasons I've already said. There needs to be a
catalyst there. I intend to provide that
catalyst. And then I'm going to get out of it. I tell
the government every time I talk to them, I don't
like doing your job for you. I'm not being paid for
it. If you'll just start doing it, I'll be glad to
get out of it, and I know you'll be glad to have me
out. But throughout American history, any time
that there has been a vacuum of government, it's
been filled by private citizenry. An example? not
directly related but partially related is the
watergate the executive branch would not examine
itself so what happened the legislative branch
filled that vacuum and required the executive
branch to police itself back in king george's time
there was a vacuum of government a few men who were
determined to see right and justice done had guts
enough to sign the Declaration of Independence. I
don't know who'd sign it today. Everybody wants
some damn lawyer. You know, it's okay if you want to
check with King George. So I hope that in the
history of the United States from this day
forward, any time there is a dearth of government
action that some, that's what we're about, is
freedom. is some individual will find courage
enough to withstand the slings and arrows of
criticism that will be hurled at him, because
that's exactly what happens. The first thing that
they do, go back through history and do some
homework. Anytime someone has tried to go against
the status quo, the first thing they do is try to
discredit him. Failing that, then they'll begin
to marshal all of the bureaucracy. No man has been
successful standing against the bureaucracy i
don't know whether i will be or not and when i say
that i have to caveat it because you see
who is our consumer advocate
yeah nadir but he wasn't fighting the u.s
bureaucracy he was fighting general motors at
that time martin luther king was successful but uh
jesus christ was successful Look what they tried
to do to him. They nailed him to the cross.
Everybody said he was a nut. Anytime. You know, you
go back through history, it doesn't mean that they
were wrong. It means they happened for a short time
to be a majority of one. As long as you're dealing
with truth and reality, those two things can
withstand the test of time. So I know I'm on perfect
ground. One, I have the secret to life. I earned it
through learning about death. I earned it up on
that mountain where I got some truths. I know about
life. I'm fearless right now because I don't have
to worry. I know what comes next. I know that I'm
right because what I'm dealing with is truth. I
wouldn't be doing if I didn't know it wasn't true.
So in the end, I know all the critics, just like the
critics of the Washington Post when they started
talking about Watergate. I know what the result's
going to be. All I got to do is stand back and just
watch it happen. And so that's why I don't get
concerned about critics. Can you explain how
Velvet Hammer came about and why did it fail? Yes.
Velvet Hammer didn't fail. It never got out of the
jungles of Florida. But it came about because,
again, I was asked to retire, and I did in 1979. By
1980, we had developed information that included
satellite photos of American prison camp in Laos.
We went to Florida to train to rescue those
prisoners. President Reagan won the election. He
was briefed on the situation, and like Admiral
Tuttle told me, he was the man Jerry Tuttle was
responsible for this mission in the Pentagon out
of DIA then. He said, quote, the president's
excited about this. We're going to make the rescue
using federal troops. We don't need you no more,
Bo. You can go home. I knew it wasn't ever going to
happen, and so I begged him. He said, Bo, I got them
by the balls on this thing. They can't turn it
around. We're going to rescue those prisoners. So
I disbanded the troops in Florida. We went home
Easter in 1981. The raid never came off. When
Admiral Tuttle called me May 21, 1981, at my home in
Los Angeles, he said, Beau, tomorrow the
Washington Post is going to break a story that says
that the CIA sent Lao mercenaries looking for
prisoners and found none. And I said, Admiral, are
you telling me that they've turned the planes
around? Because I use the analogy of the Bay of
Pigs, and he says, yes, it's off. So then that's
what happened with Velvet Hammer. What about
Grand Eagle? Grand Eagle was a product of the ISA.
ISA, Carter did one thing. As far as I know, that was
good. He created, in the wake of the Iranian
debacle, a special intelligence organization
that Congress didn't know about called ISA. Its
purpose was to rescue and do special missions that
was outside the congressional oversight. And
oversight's a damn good word to use with respect to
Congress. But if you wanted to do a clandestine
operation, you had to go through seven
subcommittees of Congress. Some of them are pink
old commie faggots. We know that because we have
films of them committing fellatio with people in
the Longworth building in the men's room. They're
all kind of fruits and nuts in Congress. So it is
insane to think you can conduct clandestine
operations by getting Congress approval. So ISA
was created specifically to work for the
president to do this kind of thing.
Theoretically, it was wonderful. But in reality,
it had no fangs because as soon as Velvet Hammer
went down, ISA told me, Bo, we've picked this thing
up now. We're going to do it. And that was Grand
Eagle. It never got across the creek. I was
supposed to have gone across the Mekong River to
document Americans in captivity and bring one
back if possible. It never got off of the drawing
boards because DIA challenged ISA.
Theoretically, ISA should have prevailed. But in
reality, because bureaucratically it was safer
to keep the POW issue in the filing cabinets of the
Pentagon, because if I'd have gone across the
creek, there's a goddamn good chance that they
would have had to dealt with something in three
dimension instead of two-dimensional
paperwork. So ISA failed. As a result, ISA became
exposed. And there was a big article in the paper
about how the president was just now but too late,
beginning to get a handle on some of the secret
intelligence activities that were going on.
So that's what happened with Grand Eagle. It
wasn't very grand because it never got out of the
United States, and it certainly wasn't an eagle. I
called it Boheka, which meant bend over, here it
comes again. That's exactly what it turned out to
be. What do you think were the political reasons
for Kissinger's refusal to accept the list of POWs
from the Cambodian? Good reasons. Good,
perfectly wonderful political reasons. One, his
marching orders were to get out expeditiously
with honor. If he would have dealt with a Lao, it
would have opened up a whole new dimension to the
war because we had forever denied that we were in
there. My helicopters used to be shot down over
there, and every time they were, I used to have to
say when we couldn't recover them that I was off
course, that I didn't know where I was. That's
crap. We were conducting the war in Laos for good
reason, because that's where the enemy was. But if
Kissinger would have accepted the POW list, he
would have had to have opened up that whole new
arena. It would have lengthened the time that we
could have gotten out with honor. It would have
meant reparations for the Laos because we had
destroyed property, resources, and people. And
we would have had to have dealt with that. And it
would have meant a larger economic package. It
would have meant negotiations. It would have
meant exposure because American activists would
have said, what do you mean Laos? What are we doing
fighting the war in Laos? We never heard about
that. And so for those reasons, And I fault him for
this because if Kissinger would have been a good
human being, he would have weighed his conscience
against the good of the nation. And you see, in the
end, maybe in the short run, the good of the nation
was to say, go away, Laos, we're not going to talk to
you. But damn it, in the long run, what is this
country about if it's not about the humans that
make it up? So when he let those brave soldiers drop
between the cracks, he wasn't right. Even though
He was following his boss's orders, which was get
out with honor now. So for political expediency,
he signed those men's death warrants in many
cases. Have any of them been recovered? No. The Lao
have never turned over a prisoner of war. Do we have
proof that there actually are some prison awards
that are aligned in Los Angeles? What about the
satellite photograph? The only reason the
satellite picture was taken was because the
patrol said, hey, we saw 30 Americans precisely
here at Namarat. And then the satellite was
positioned, and bingo, there's Fort Apache.
That's what Chairman Dornan called it because he
got privileged all the information. In addition,
there are the hundreds of refugee reports. The
evidence is as clear as a nose on our face. If we will
open our political eyes, we will see that in
others.
The best analogy I can give is Denison Lane,
spokesman for the Pentagon, said this about
yellow rain. With so many people saying it's so, it
must be so. And everybody believed that. There
were only about 10 people talking about yellow
rain in those days. I used Denison Lane's words.
With so many people saying it's so, it must be so.
Because there have been almost 3,000 reports from
natives of Southeast Asia talking about
Americans in captivity. 670, more than,
firsthand eyewitness reports, satellite
photographs, intelligence chiefs that say, yes,
with all that I know, I must say that we left those
prisoners behind. Silver stars given out for
people that were left behind. There's
no question about it. Not because I say so. The Laos
say, we're not saying we don't have the prisoners
of war. We're saying Laos is a big country, very
poor. You help us, we'll go look. The Vietnamese
don't say they don't have prisoners of war. They
say that they are holding American criminals,
common criminals, but that they have no right to be
identified because we have no diplomatic
relationship with them. The president says it's
top national priority, but yet A deputy assistant
secretary is the highest-ranking U.S. official
to ever go to Vietnam and talk about this since
Henry Kissinger left 10 years ago. So if that's the
kind of top national priority it is, I think it's
bullshit. And that's why I'm willing to act as a
vigilante if I have to, even though I don't
advocate vigilantism in this country. Why do you
think those countries are still holding the POWs
there? I mean, what benefit do they have? They
represent billions of dollars in economic aid.
And because they're humanitarian. If they
weren't humanitarian, they would have killed
them a long time ago when it became obvious the
United States wasn't going to pay off. But you see,
in the beginning, the Vietnamese thought they
were going to negotiate with Henry Kissinger. And
they said, here's our parcel of POWs. We were going
to, over five years, give them $3.5 billion. And
they were going to continue to give us POWs in that
exchange. We didn't give them a dime because even
though Nixon signed the agreement, Congress
didn't ratify it. So we tricked them. Ha-ha, we
tricked ourselves because they had planned on
parceling out POWs in return for that economic
aid. Secondly, Nixon said, if you violate the
Paris Peace Accord, I'm going to start bombing
Hanoi again. So Hanoi had good reason to hold those
prisoners as an umbrella of security. Nixon got
washed away at Watergate. As a result, Ford had no
fangs. There was no threat. What do you do with
those POWs? Thirdly, there was a POW who, like
Jimmy Ray, because he violated certain laws that
they had, they said, we are changing your category
from prisoner of war to common criminal. You will
never go home. So for those good reasons, and like
the Lao, if you were a Lao villager, and a fighter
bomber were to come over and drop bombs and some of
those bombs killed your villagers destroyed your
homes and resources and that fighter bomber were
to crash and you were to capture the pilot what
would you think of him would you think that he was a
war hero to be treated with respect as the red baron
might have created one of our aces no you are a
criminal You're going to be held as a criminal
because you've taken our lives, you've destroyed
our property and our resources. And we're going to
hold you in prison because you're not even at war
with this country. And until we recognize the fact
that there are as many bomb holes as in Laos as there
is in Vietnam and deal with the truth as it is real,
those guys, the Lao, have every reason to hold them
as Americans. And so that's some of the reasons why
they've kept them. and why they're still keeping
them. One, what do you do with them? Go out and shoot
them all? They are not that kind of a people.
Secondly, they still represent the potential for
whatever 1983 dollars would be. It was 3.5 in 1973.
But a lot of that stuff has escalated 10 times. And
some of it's only escalated half, maybe, in the
inflation of 73 and 83. But certainly it
represents probably $10 billion today. How are we
going to drive that kind of a budget wedge into an
already strained economy? So you understand why
the president has a problem with that. he's hoping
that somebody like me will go over there and bring
one back so that on human rights basis we can get
them back for nothing. Because if he has to drive
that $10 billion wedge, it has to go to all the
unpopularity of opening up the wound of war. What
politician is going to survive that? It's an
unpopular cause. It's going to bring great
scrutiny down on him. If you were a political
advisor, you'd probably tell the president to
stay away from it. So for all those reasons, you
would be right, but you would be wrong. for the deep
reason that it is not right. Morally, we're
obligated to bring those lives home because
they're American citizens and they have a right to
life as we know it in this country. And the worst
thing that can happen to a warrior is to die alone in
the hands of his enemies. And that's what's going
to happen to those guys. It's happening even
today. Give me some information about your
current new operation, Lazarus, and what
direction do you think it's going to take? Well,
Lazarus is finished. Lazarus was in three phases.
It began in September. of 1982 when we went to
Thailand to solidify intelligence. That was
phase one. Phase two is when we crossed into Laos
twice to evaluate guerrilla organizations who
purportedly could do the job, but I hadn't seen it
proven on the ground. Phase three was called
Lazarus Omega where we were going to make the
rescue. We were betrayed and all that resulted
since then. There is a new operation we are calling
it Phoenix because from those ashes we are going to
rise stronger and hopefully invincible this time
to finish the job. Phoenix is prepared. We are
waiting. We have one more step. Nothing else
remains to be done. Everything is set. The last
step I will make will be to bring the prisoner home.
And the mechanism is set, and we're just simply
waiting for it to work. What time frame are we
looking at? Well, I'm not going to be specific for
intelligence reasons, but it's difficult to move
during the monsoon season. The rain makes
movement, food, communications. It degrades
everything. Last year we launched in November
because that's when the rain stops.
Okay, and my last question is, what is it in you? You
sort of answered it before, but I want to hear more
specifically. What is it in you that keeps you
searching for these aliens? Just because I know
they're there, I know they're alive, and who else
is going to do it if I don't? Admiral Inman of the CIA
said, Bo, if I were to tell you that the CIA will do
everything we possibly can to get these Americans
home, will you stop? I said, no, sir, because I know
he's full of crap. They are politically
controlled. They're not only going to do in their
bureaucracy. Who are they? They are little
bureaucrats in a building at Langley. They need
someone who has been across the river, who has been
there to see it. Martin Luther King said, I've been
to the mountains. Damn it, I've been across the
Mekong. I know that they're there. I know the CIA. I
know the DIA. I know the President of the United
States doesn't really know what they're talking
about when he says we're doing all possible. What
does that mean, all possible? If it's top national
priority, why don't we fly the POW flag every day?
If it's top national priority, why isn't the vice
president over talking to the Vietnamese right
now? So I know they're full of crap. Those are sweet
words like check is in the mail and a lot of other
things. And sweet words aren't going to get those
Americans home. It's going to take direct action,
straight line type action. And it takes intensive
action. You can't just do it on a part-time basis.
Put it in my inbox, I'll get to it later. It has to be
worked 24 hours a day because it is one hell of a
project. This nation has not rescued American
prisoners of war since January 1945. We failed at
Sante, we failed at Mayaguez, we failed in Iran,
and we sure didn't succeed in the Bay of Pigs. We
traded some of our prisoners back for tractors.
That's a measure of success. So we haven't done
anything right in this country since World War II.
And the reason, as I think, because we have been
working on a double standard. The U.S. government
looks at what is best for the nation, and it
quantifies it with respect to economics and
politics. but yet the soldier is expected to
perform based on what's good for the nation, duty,
honor, country, and not what is in his own best
interest. What if the soldier, when asked to go to
Latin America, said, well, let me see, is it in my
best personal interest? I'm getting paid $550. I
may get my ass shot off. It isn't. I'm not going.
Well, that's exactly what the nation is doing.
It's saying, how much is it going to cost us? How
many votes is this going to be? Politically, how
sensitive is this? It's not worth it. We won't do
it. So if the individual reacted the way the
nation's reacting, we'd give a war and nobody
would go. And maybe that'd be the right thing to do.
I don't know. The nation is our mother. The
government is our mother. Nobody likes to hear
their mother called a whore, even if it's the
truth. I want the government to look good.
Unfortunately, it is tough to get them to commit
And I have told them, I'm going to give you all the
discredit you deserve if you don't help us in this
endeavor. Because it's very dangerous. I'm going
to be really angry if something happens to me or
that American PW and we're coming back across the
river this time because the bureaucracy didn't
want to get involved. And I intend to jam it right
down their throat. I don't like the idea. And in the
end, I may renege and let them say it was all their
idea. I don't know. Time will tell that. But I'm
doing it because if I don't, who will? And there are
a lot of critics, but not very many people willing
to get into the arena.
Okay. Thank you. All right. I appreciate it.